# Capacity Limits of Optical Fiber Networks

- **ID**: Capacity_Limits_of_Optical_Fiber_Networks
- **领域**: Optical Communication
- **年份**: 2024
- **参考文献数量**: 1

---

## 参考文献列表

### [1]

); hexagonal constellations therefore maximize and are asymptotically (i.e., for large SNR) optimal. Such constella- tions become symmetrical when the outer-most hexagon is com- pletely ﬁlled, i.e., for , etc. The error ratio and capacity results presented in the remainder of this Appendix have been obtained as follows. To calculate the SER at a given SNR value, the integral in (99) (with given by (16)) was evaluated numerically for every point of the constellation. The decision regions are regions of minimum distance, i.e., every point in the complex plane that is closer to than to any other constellation point belongs to Fig. 41. Symbol and bit error ratios (SER—solid lines, BER—dashed lines) of various binary and quaternary formats: OOK (1b), BPSK (1a), 2-ASK/2-PSK (2a), QPSK or 4-QAM (2b), ring-1-3 (2c). The BER of QPSK (2b) is equal to that of BPSK (1a). . Using the same decision regions, the BER is numerically evaluated as (100) where the probability for receiving given that was sent is given by (101) and is the number of bit errors made for that symbol error . Using a Gray mapping decreases this number and hence the BER. To obtain the soft-decision ca- pacity value, (37) was integrated numerically for every input symbol and using (16). To obtain the hard-decision ca- pacity, the transitional probabilities (101) are used to evaluate (12). A. Binary and Quaternary Constellations For binary and quaternary signaling, those constellations with the largest minimum distance yield the best performance in terms of error ratio or capacity at all values of SNR. The distance between the symbols for OOK [see Fig. 42(1b)] is , whereas BPSK [see Fig. 42(1a)] has (all at unity average symbol energy). QPSK [see Fig. 42(2b)] achieves , which exceeds for 2-ASK/2-PSK [see Fig. 42(2a)], and for ring-1-3 [see Fig. 42(2c)]. Fig. 40 depicts the capacities of these formats for soft- and hard-decision receivers as a function of the SNR per information bit. All schemes achieve bits/symbol for large SNR. At lower SNRs, QPSK/4-QAM (2b) has the highest capacity, followed by ring-1-3 (2c) and 2-ASK/2-PSK (2a). The dashed lines show the capacity values for hard-decision, so that the difference between corresponding solid and dashed line pairs can be interpreted as the amount of information that is destroyed by the hard decision process Authorized licensed use limited to: SHANGHAI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on January 18,2026 at 14:02:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. --- Page 31 --- 692 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWA VE TECHNOLOGY , VOL. 28, NO. 4, FEBRUARY 15, 2010 Fig. 42. Examples of constellations with /77/61/50/59/77/61/52, and /77/61/56points. Fig. 43. Capacities of 8-ary formats with soft (solid lines) and hard decision (dashed lines): 4-ASK/2-PSK (3a), rectangular 8-QAM (3b), 8-PSK (3c), 2-ASK/4-PSK (3d) with /114 /61/114 /61/50, ring-1-7 (3f), hexagonal (3g), and star 8-QAM (3h). or, equivalently, as the SNR gain that can be achieved by processing soft values in the receiver. Fig. 41 shows the SER for these formats. For binary constel- lations, the SER and BER are identical. For , at high SNRs, the dominant error event is the detection of a neighbor symbol. With Gray mapping, this induces only a single bit error, so that for schemes with , BER and SER are asymptot- ically equal. This can be observed in Fig. 41, where the BER and SER curves of QPSK (2b) and 2-ASK/2-PSK (2a) merge for large SNRs. B. 8-ary Constellations Examples for constellations with points are depicted in Fig. 42. Using only a single quadrature results in bad performance at ; 4-ASK/2-PSK (3a) has a minimum distance of only Fig. 44. Constellations with /77/61/49 /54points. Fig. 45. Symbol and bit error ratios (SER: solid lines, BER: dashed lines) of 16-ary formats: hexagonal (4g), QAM (4b), PSK (4c), ring-1-3-5-7 (4f), 2-ASK/8-PSK (4d), 4-ASK/4-PSK (4e). . This compares to for 8-PSK (3c) and for 2-ASK/4-PSK (3d) with a ring ampli- tude ratio of . 2-ASK/4-PSK (3d) subsumes other well-known constellations. For , we obtain square 8-QAM with . Setting delivers an optimum minimum distance of . Star 8-QAM (3h) (which is 2-ASK/4-PSK with equal phase an- gles in both rings) has . Rectangular 8-QAM (3b), which are eight points on a 2-by-4 grid, achieves the same min- imum distance as square 8-QAM, . More unusual 8-ary formats are ring-1-7 (3f) and 8-hex (3g) . The latter is the optimum 8-ary constellation in terms of minimum distance [210]. Notice that the constella- tion is dc-free; because of its asymmetry, this implies that the innermost constellation point is not located at the origin. Fig. 43 shows soft- and hard-decision capacity values for 8-ary modulation schemes. It is noteworthy that despite its having the largest minimum distance, 8-hex performs slightly worse than ring-1-7 for a wide SNR range. The SER of 8-hex is smaller than that of ring-1-7 only for very large SNRs ( dB); in this range, the capacities of both schemes have already saturated at 3 bits/symbol. Authorized licensed use limited to: SHANGHAI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on January 18,2026 at 14:02:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. --- Page 32 --- ESSIAMBRE et al.: CAPACITY LIMITS OF OPTICAL FIBER NETWORKS 693 Fig. 46. Capacities of various 16-ary formats with soft (solid lines) and hard decision (dashed lines): hexagonal (4g), QAM (4b), PSK (4c), ring-1-3-5-7 (4f), 2-ASK/8-PSK (4d). Fig. 47. QAM constellations with 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, and 1024 points. C. 16-ary Constellations The most prominent 16-ary constellations are (sorted by minimum distance): 16-hex (4g) , 16-QAM (4b) , 4-ASK/4-PSK (4e) , 2-ASK/8-PSK (4d) , ring-1-3-5-7 (4f) , 16-PSK (4c) . Fig. 44 contains illustrations of these constellations. The performance of selected 16-ary modulation schemes is depicted in Figs. 45 and 46, respectively. As expected, the mod- ulation schemes perform according to their minimum distance at large SNRs. The hexagonal constellation achieves the highest capacity; however, the gain over 16-QAM is marginal. Because of the simpler implementation in practical systems, 16-QAM is generally preferred over 16-hex. Across the SNR range shown in Fig. 46, 2-ASK/8-PSK and 4-ASK/4-PSK achieve virtually the same capacity values. 16-PSK performs worst in terms of error ratio or capacity at all values of SNR shown. With increasing , the gain obtained from soft decoding increases. Fig. 48. Capacities of /77-QAM constellations /40/77/61/56/59/49/54/59/51/50/59/54/52/59/49/50/56/59/50/53/54/59 /53/49/50/59/49/48/50/52/41with soft (solid lines) and hard decision (dashed lines). Fig. 49. SER (solid) and BER (dashed) curves for /77-QAM constellations. D. Higher Order Constellations As increases, the trend observed for continues: At large SNRs, those constellations with the largest minimum distance achieve the highest capacity. These are hexagonal constellations, but QAM constellations perform only slightly worse. Ring constellations and ASK/PSK combinations are op- timum at low SNRs. In absolute values, however, their capacity gain over QAM is very small. The SER/BER curves as well as soft- and hard-decision capacities for all -QAM constella- tions with are shown in Figs. 48 and 49, respectively. ACKNOWLEDGMENT

---

