# Wavelength Allocation and Dispersion Penalty Analysis of 50G PON Coexisting with EPON

- **ID**: Wavelength_Allocation_and_Dispersion_Penalty_Analysis_of_50G_PON_Coexisting_with_EPON
- **领域**: Optical Communication
- **年份**: 2024
- **参考文献数量**: 1

---

## 参考文献列表

### [1]

. To address this issue, the wavelength of DS needs to be re-selected. On the one hand, the wavelength needs to avoid the “water peak” because the op tical fiber deployed in some ODNs does not eliminate the “wat er peak”. In addition, the optional wavelength is in a longer wavelength area, so the Fig. 1. (a) Wavelength plan from EPON to 50G PON, UW: upstream wavelength, DW: downstream wavelength, (b) Normalized power spectral density curves at different wavelengths 2024 Asia Communications and Photonics Conference (ACP) and International Conference on Information Photonics and Optical Communications (IPOC) | 979-8-3503-7926-6/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ACP/IPOC63121.2024.10810025 Authorized licensed use limited to: SHANGHAI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 21,2025 at 09:11:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. --- Page 2 --- power budget penalty caused by CD needs to be considered. Based on the above considerations, this paper will take the performance of the signal in 1344nm as the baseline and discuss the power penalty when 1365nm and 1430nm are used as the DWs. Fig. 1 (b) shows the normalized power spectral density curves for different wavelengths. As the wavelength increases, the available bandwidth of the system, namely the first zero point of the corresponding curve, gradually decreases. It can be seen that the available bandwidth of the system at 1430 nm is reduced by >10 dB compared with that of 1344 nm. It will cause serious inter-symbol interference (ISI) and degrades the power budget. Therefore, the cost of changing the wavelength to still meet a sufficient power budget (e.g., 29 dB) needs to be discussed. In order to increase the dispersion tolerance, methods such as high-order modulation formats, optical duobinary (ODB) modulation, and EML with negative chirp factor have been widely studied [8-10]. Besides, in 50G PON, DSP is used for the first time to improve the power budget [11]. Among the above methods, high-order modulation formats such as 4- Level Pulse Amplitude Modulation (PAM4) will place higher requirements on the linearity of the device. MZM is required to achieve ODB modulation at the transmitter, which will undoubtedly increase the cost. Therefore, considering the cost and compatibility with existing protocols, adjusting the chirp factor of the EML and the DSP is more conducive to practical implementation. In this paper, we discuss the power budget penalty of different DW under different EML chirp factor and DSP combinations. The simulation results show that when the chirp factor is 0.5 and 15-tap feed-forward equalizer (FFE) is used, the power penalty between 1365nm and 1344nm is 2dB. The bit error ratio (BER) of the 1430nm signal cannot pass the FEC threshold of 1e-2. After adding 3-tap decision-feedback equalizer (DFE), the sensitivity of the signal in 1344 nm, 1365 nm and 1430 nm are -26.6 dBm, -25.8 dBm and -23.1dBm, respectively. When the chirp factor is -0.8. The signal in 1430 nm still needs DFE to pass the FEC threshold. Assisted by the combination of 15-tap FFE+3-tap DFE, the optimal sensitivity of 1430 nm signals can reach -26.3 dBm which is only 0.3 dB worse than the case of 1344nm with a chirp factor of 0.5. The results provide a reference wavelength allocation scheme for the coexistence of 50G PON and EPON.. II. S

---

